First draft of long term strategy document (#222)
microsoft/ebpf-for-windows: docs/Long term goals.md

# eBPF for Windows – Long term strategy

## Overview

This is intended as a living document that will be updated as the project
evolves. It is not intended as definitive guide, but rather as set of
aspirational goals for the project. It is expected that it will evolve based on

> the needs of our customers and the feedback of people working on this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the needs of users and the feedback of contributors working on this project.
```

Reviewer: Use open source terminology rather than product-like terminology

To achieve long term success, this project needs to succeed in several
different areas. Each section of this document covers an area or scenario that
eBPF For Windows needs to meet.

## Security

> The most important aspect of this project is that needs to uphold the security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most important aspect of this project is that it needs to uphold the security
```

> principles in Windows and the security promises that Windows customers have come

Reviewer: ```suggestion
principles in Windows and the security promises that Windows users have come
```

> to expect, while maintaining the flexibility to meet our customers needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to expect, while maintaining the flexibility to meet their needs.
```

> Customer should be able to deploy and run eBPF programs on Windows when the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users should be able to deploy and run eBPF programs on Windows when the
```

system is configured for its most secure mode, whether that is a shielded VM,
Hyper-Visor Code Integrity or other security mitigations.

> The BPF ISA and VM clearly define limits as to what an BPF program can do, with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BPF ISA and VM clearly define limits as to what an eBPF program can do, with
```

limits on execution time, memory accessed and kernel functionality that can be
invoked. Within these limits eBPF programs should have the flexibility to
perform any operations.

> ## Compatibly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Compatibility
```

> eBPF as a technology is available on other platforms (mainly Linux) and our
> customers have an expectation that eBPF programs written for Linux should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eBPF as a technology is available on other platforms (mainly Linux) and
users have an expectation that eBPF programs written for Linux should be
```

portable to Windows. While binary compatibility of the compiled eBPF programs is

> likely not possible, it should be relatively straight forward to port programs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
likely not possible, it should be relatively straightforward to port programs
```

> from Linux to Windows eBPF. The main obstacle to this is around helper APIs and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from Linux to Windows. The main obstacle to this is around helper APIs and
```

> the type definitions that are subject to incompatible license agreements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the type definitions that are OS-specific.
```

The project aims to provide interface compatible APIs for loading and managing

> eBPF programs, while also providing extended APIs for functionality that is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eBPF programs, while also providing extended APIs (hooks and related helpers) for functionality that is not
```

present in other platforms.

Given the fundamental differences between Linux and Windows, attach points are

> unlikely to be the same as those present in Linux, but a best effort should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unlikely to be identical to those present in Linux, but a best effort should be
```

made to offer similar functionality where it makes sense.

## Extensibility

A core aspiration of this project is for there to be an active ecosystem built
on top of eBPF for Windows. eBPF for Windows is not intended to offer a complete
set of helper functions and attach points to meet all customer needs by itself,
but rather to have an organically grown set of extensions that provide helper

> functionality and attach point owned and maintained by the community at large.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
functionality and attach points owned and maintained by the community at large.
```

> Developing new scenarios and use cases should be achieved with out the need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developing new scenarios and use cases should be achieved without the need to
```

update the core eBPF for Windows project and likewise updates to the core eBPF
for Windows project should not break extensions.

> The project envisions two main scenarios for extensions, observability of system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project envisions two main scenarios for extensions: observability of system
```

state and modification of system behavior.

### Observability

> One of the largest use case of eBPF on other platforms is observe the behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the largest use cases for eBPF on other platforms is to observe the behavior
```

of the system, both through predefined observability points as well as
dynamically created observability points. Similar technologies already exist for
Windows, with [DTrace on Windows](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/dtrace)
being the primary example as well as
[Event Tracing for Windows](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/etw/event-tracing-portal).
While these technologies can be used to achieve the observability goals, they
don't currently integrate with the eBPF ecosystem. As a long-term goal, this
project should carefully consider how best to leverage both technologies to
allow eBPF for Windows to meet its observability goals. Likely there will be a
small set of extensions that leverage Windows system capabilities to define new
attach points for visibility.

### Control

A secondary use case for eBPF on other platforms is to extend existing system

> behavior with out the need to author new in-box components. As this invariably

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behavior without the need to author new kernel drivers. As this invariably
```
(There's no "box" per se in general now...)

involves modification of the flow of control within existing components, this is
often via predefined extension points. Typical modifications can include
permit/deny decisions, alteration of the flow of control, or modification of the
data transiting the system. The expectation is that many of these extensions
will be built on top of existing extensibility points within Windows or 3rd
party software running on Windows. Given the wide range of extensibility points
within the Windows ecosystem, this is likely to be the source of the largest
number of extensions.

## Context Agility

The threat profile being faced by computer systems is continually evolving and

> as result it is likely that the mitigations required will likewise evolve. To

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as a result it is likely that the mitigations required will likewise evolve. To
```

> this end, the project has invested heavily in the ability to run code within in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this end, the project has invested heavily in the ability to run code within
```

a wide variety of contexts, ranging from operating in kernel mode, to running

> within user mode processes or in isolate enclaves (either hardware backed or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
within user mode processes or in isolated enclaves (either hardware backed or
```

virtualized). This primarily impacts the execution context, which is designed to
have a bounded set of dependencies that can be satisfied in a wide variety of

> contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contexts, but also applies to other components such as the verifier and JIT compiler.
```
